MIDI-OX 16
Version 3.00
DRAFT 07-JUN-96

MIDI-OX 16 is a Windows 3.1+ program.  It displays incoming MIDI streams,
and passes the data to a MIDI output driver or the MIDI Mapper.  The 
program was originally included in the MS Windows 3.1 SDK (as MIDI Monitor), 
but has been extensively modified.

This ZIP file contains the source code for the current version of
MIDIOX16, plus the executables.  It was built using MSVC 1.5, but
other versions of MS compilers should work as well.  The code can
also be compiled under WIN32 (using MSVC 4.x), by using conditional
compilation.  The enclosed MAKEFILE builds the 16 bit version,
MIDIOX32.MAK builds a 32 bit version.  We need to point out, however;
the 32 bit version is not thunked, and can exhibit the full range
of timing problems that non-thunked WIN32 MIDI programs will under
Windows 95.  The binaries for the fully thunked 32 bit MIDI-OX 32
will be released shortly, but probably not the source code.

This document is a very brief overview of MIDIMON and how to install it.
If you require more extensive information or have any questions you may
contact the authors.  Bear in mind that we have somewhat limited resources 
for support of freeware products though:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jamie O'Connell 
    Compuserve: 72662,1433 
    msn: 	JamieOConnell@msn.com	
    internet:	jamieo@user1.channel1.com

Jerry Jorgenrud
    Compuserve:	75060,1040
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

INSTALLATION

In addition to the source code, this zip file contains:

 MIDIOX16.EXE       The program
 MIDIMCBK.DLL       Callback DLL
 MOX16SRC.TXT       This file

INSTALLATION

To install the program, unzip the files to a directory.  The DLL file 
must either be in the same directory as MIDIMON.EXE, the Windows System 
directory, or in a directory named in the PATH environment variable. 

Next, start Windows (unless it's already running), and click on the group 
you want to put MIDIOX16 in.  Pull down File/New... (Main menu item: File, 
submenu: New) and choose "Program Item".  A dialog box is displayed 
containing 4 items.  The only essential one to fill in is "Command Line".
You can type in the whole pathname (ex: C:\PATH\MIDIOX16.EXE where PATH is
where you put the program), or you can choose "Browse" and graphically 
find the program.  After you have entered the command line, click on OK, 
and the icon will be added to the group.  You can then double click on the
program icon to start it.  See the Windows 3.1 _User's Guide_, Chapter 3,
"Creating a Program Item" if any of this is unclear.

MIDI Drivers

You can choose which MIDI drivers to monitor, by opening 
Options/MIDI Devices... all installed MIDI drivers will be displayed 
in 2 list boxes.  You may select any number of input devices, but
only one output device (you can change the output device at any time).
You can also choose the MIDI Mapper for the output device. 

Control Panel

The Control Panel is opened by choosing Options/Control Panel... It
allows you to send MIDI events to both the display, and MIDI output.
By using it you can send Patch changes, volume, pan etc. in real 
time.  It is a non-modal dialog box, which means you can keep it open
all the time the program is running.  If the "Auto Send Value" box
is checked, the events are sent as soon as the value changes.  You can
use the up and down arrow keys (as well as page-up and page-down) to 
change the "Spin" controls (in addition to clicking on the up or down
arrowheads).  The "Panic" button will send 128 note-offs on each MIDI
channel, as well as _all notes off_ and _reset controllers_ on each
channel -- this may take a few seconds to complete.

Filters

The filtering functions only affect the display unless the "Filter Actual
Data" menu option is checked.  All input is passed to output.  Passing
System Exclusive is now supported if the "Pass SysEx" option is checked.
If an item on the menu is checked, it is filtered.  Active  sensing (FE) 
and Realtime messages (F8) are filtered by default -- you can turn them 
on by unchecking the menu.

Display

The Monitor Display shows a TimeStamp -- A value of "MIDIOX16" is used
for events sent from the Control Panel; Port number -- the number 
corresponds to the order of the MIDI Input devices; Status, Value1,
and Value2 contain the actual hexadecimal MIDI values; Channel is 
numbered between 1 and 16; Event shows a textual description of the
MIDI Event.  For Note Events, the Note and Octave are displayed.  Which
octave is displayed can be controlled by the Options/Middle C Octave 
menu switch.

Notes

When the program is minimized to an icon, the icon will animate when
MIDI data is received.  

You can  temporarily release, and later re-attach,  MIDI devices from 
the system menu, if you wish to use other programs which require MIDI 
devices, without closing MIDIOX16.  

There is a 'Stay on top' option in the system menu.  If selected, it will
keep MIDIOX16 on top of other running programs.

The current configuration is saved to MIDIOX16.INI in the application directory.  

Any number of MIDIOX16 instances may be opened. All after the first do not
connect MIDI devices, but open the MIDI Devices dialog box to allow you
to connect different devices.

We'll attempt to address any problems people run into.

DISCLAIMER

In the source code for MIDIMON, Microsoft corporation gives permission to 
distribute the program or modified versions of the program as long as no 
liability is incurred by Microsoft.  I extend that permission so you may 
use and distribute this version of the program freely, as long as you 
agree that Microsoft and Jamie O'Connell have no warranty obligations or 
liability resulting from the use or misuse of MIDIOX16.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

